Add loki.enrich component (#2882)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/loki/loki.enrich.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/loki/loki.enrich/

> canonical: /docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/loki/loki.enrich/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/components/loki/loki.enrich/
```

title: loki.enrich
labels:
  stage: experimental
description: The loki.enrich component enriches logs with labels from service discovery.
---

> # loki.enrich

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `loki.enrich`
```

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

> The `loki.enrich` component enriches logs with additional labels from service discovery targets. It matches a label from incoming logs against a label from discovered targets, and copies specified labels from the matched target to the log entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `loki.enrich` component enriches logs with additional labels from service discovery targets.
It matches a label from incoming logs against a label from discovered targets, and copies specified labels from the matched target to the log entry.
```

## Usage

```alloy
loki.enrich "LABEL" {
  // List of targets from a discovery component
  targets = DISCOVERY_COMPONENT.targets
  
  // Which label from discovered targets to match against
  match_label = "LABEL"
  
  // Which label from incoming logs to match against
  source_label = "LABEL"
  
  // List of labels to copy from discovered targets to logs

>   target_labels = ["LABEL", ...]

Author: how about `labels_to_copy` ?

>   target_labels = ["LABEL", ...]

Author: edited description.

>   target_labels = ["LABEL", ...]

Author: i'll change it then

>   target_labels = ["LABEL", ...]

Author: done

> loki.enrich "LABEL" {
>   // List of targets from a discovery component
>   targets = DISCOVERY_COMPONENT.targets
>   
>   // Which label from discovered targets to match against
>   match_label = "LABEL"
>   
>   // Which label from incoming logs to match against
>   source_label = "LABEL"
>   
>   // List of labels to copy from discovered targets to logs
>   labels_to_copy = ["LABEL", ...]
>   
>   // Where to send enriched logs
>   forward_to = [RECEIVER_LIST]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
loki.enrich "<LABEL>" {
  // List of targets from a discovery component
  targets = <DISCOVERY_COMPONENT>.targets
  
  // Which label from discovered targets to match against
  match_label = "<LABEL>"
  
  // Which label from incoming logs to match against
  source_label = "<LABEL>"
  
  // List of labels to copy from discovered targets to logs
  labels_to_copy = ["<LABEL>", ...]
  
  // Where to send enriched logs
  forward_to = [<RECEIVER_LIST>]
```

}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`targets` | `[]discovery.Target` | List of targets from a discovery component. | | yes

> `target_match_label` | `string` | Which label from discovered targets to match against (e.g., "__inventory_consul_service"). | | yes

Reviewer 2: Is it enough to use just one label? I'm not sure but it might be useful to be able to match multiple.

Author: I thought about it and I think this is probably edge case that we could work around with using relabeling to join some of the labels together first.

Reviewer 2: Ok, let's not overcomplicate it for now.

> Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
> ---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
> `targets` | `[]discovery.Target` | List of targets from a discovery component. | | yes
> `target_match_label` | `string` | Which label from discovered targets to match against (e.g., "__inventory_consul_service"). | | yes
> `logs_match_label` | `string` | Which label from incoming logs to match against discovered targets (e.g., "service_name"). If not specified, `target_match_label` will be used. | `target_match_label` | no
> `labels_to_copy` | `[]string` | List of labels to copy from discovered targets to logs. If empty, all labels will be copied. | | no
> `forward_to` | `[]loki.LogsReceiver` | List of receivers to send enriched logs to. | | yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name                 | Type                  | Description                                                                                      | Default              | Required |
| -------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------- | -------- |
| `forward_to`         | `[]loki.LogsReceiver` | List of receivers to send enriched logs to.                                                      |                      | yes      |
| `target_match_label` | `string`              | The label from discovered targets to match against, for example, `"__inventory_consul_service"`. |                      | yes      |
| `targets`            | `[]discovery.Target`  | List of targets from a discovery. component.                                                     |                      | yes      |
| `labels_to_copy`     | `[]string`            | List of labels to copy from discovered targets to logs. If empty, all labels will be copied.     |                      | no       |
| `logs_match_label`   | `string`              | The label from incoming logs to match against discovered targets, for example `"service_name"`.  | `target_match_label` | no       |
```

General table formatting for consistency with other component topics. Required args first, then optional. Alphabetic sorting.

> ## Exports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Blocks

The `loki.enrich` component doesn't support any blocks. You can configure this component with arguments.

## Exports
```

The following values are exported:

> Name | Type | Description
> ---- | ---- | -----------
> `receiver` | `loki.LogsReceiver` | A receiver that can be used to send logs to this component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name       | Type                | Description                                                 |
| ---------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `receiver` | `loki.LogsReceiver` | A receiver that can be used to send logs to this component. |
```

Table formatting

    targets = discovery.http.default.targets
    rule {
        action        = "replace"
        source_labels = ["__inventory_rack"]
        target_label  = "rack"
    }
    rule {
        action        = "replace"
        source_labels = ["__inventory_datacenter"]
        target_label  = "datacenter"
    }
    rule {
        action        = "replace"
        source_labels = ["__inventory_environment"]
        target_label  = "environment"
    }
    rule {
        action        = "replace"
        source_labels = ["__inventory_tenant"]
        target_label  = "tenant"
    }
    rule {
        action        = "replace"
        source_labels = ["__inventory_primary_ip"]
        target_label  = "primary_ip"
    }
}

// Receive syslog messages
loki.source.syslog "incoming" {
    listener {
        address = ":514"
        protocol = "tcp"
        labels = {
            job = "syslog"
        }
    }
    forward_to = [loki.enrich.default.receiver]
}

// Enrich logs using HTTP discovery
loki.enrich "default" {
    // Use targets from HTTP discovery (after relabeling)
    targets = discovery.relabel.default.output

    // Match hostname from logs to DNS name

>     target_match_label = "primary_ip"
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    target_match_label = "primary_ip"

```

Removing extra empty lines

    forward_to = [loki.write.default.receiver]
}
```

## Component Behavior

The component matches logs to discovered targets and enriches them with additional labels:

> 1. For each log entry, it looks up the value of `logs_match_label` from the log's labels (or `target_match_label` if `logs_match_label` is not specified)
> 2. It matches this value against the `target_match_label` in discovered targets
> 3. If a match is found, it copies the requested `labels_to_copy` from the discovered target to the log entry (if `labels_to_copy` is empty, all labels are copied)
> 4. The log entry (enriched or unchanged) is forwarded to the configured receivers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For each log entry, it looks up the value of `logs_match_label` from the log's labels or `target_match_label` if `logs_match_label` is not specified.
1. It matches this value against the `target_match_label` in discovered targets.
1. If a match is found, it copies the requested `labels_to_copy` from the discovered target to the log entry. Iif `labels_to_copy` is empty, all labels are copied.
1. The log entry, enriched or unchanged, is forwarded to the configured receivers.
```

Applying "lazy numbering" style. Remove `(` and `)`.

Author: Applied

> ## See also

Reviewer: This isn't used elsewhere in the docs.  It's OK to leave in for now, but we may look at re-wording this in a future iteration.

Author: removed.

* [loki.source.syslog](../loki.source.syslog/)
* [loki.source.api](../loki.source.api/)
* [discovery.relabel](../discovery/discovery.relabel/)

> * [discovery.http](../discovery/discovery.http/) <!-- START GENERATED COMPATIBLE COMPONENTS -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [discovery.http](../discovery/discovery.http/) 

<!-- START GENERATED COMPATIBLE COMPONENTS -->
```

> Note that By default, `loki.enrich` is ready as soon as it starts, even if no targets has been discovered yet. If telemetry is sent to this processor before the metadata is synced, there will be no labels to enrich the telemetry with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `loki.enrich` is ready as soon as it starts, even if no targets have been discovered.
If telemetry is sent to this component before the metadata is synced, there will be no labels to enrich the telemetry with.
```

We should avoid the "Note that..." sentence structure.  Either just make the statement as-is or if it should be in a note use the admonition shortcode. If we opt for an actual note, the markdown is:

```
{{< admonition type="note" >}}
By default, `loki.enrich` is ready as soon as it starts, even if no targets have been discovered.
If telemetry is sent to this component before the metadata is synced, there will be no labels to enrich the telemetry with.
{{< /admonition >}}
```

Author: thank you

The component matches logs to discovered targets and enriches them with additional labels:

1. For each log entry, it looks up the value of `logs_match_label` from the log's labels or `target_match_label` if `logs_match_label` is not specified.
1. It matches this value against the `target_match_label` in discovered targets.
1. If a match is found, it copies the requested `labels_to_copy` from the discovered target to the log entry. If `labels_to_copy` is empty, all labels are copied.
1. The log entry, enriched or unchanged, is forwarded to the configured receivers.

> By default, `loki.enrich` is ready as soon as it starts, even if no targets have been discovered.
> If telemetry is sent to this component before the metadata is synced, there will be no labels to enrich the telemetry with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, `loki.enrich` is ready as soon as it starts, even if no targets have been discovered.
If telemetry is sent to this component before the metadata is synced, then it will be passed though as-is, without enrichment.
This is most likely to impact `loki.enrich` on startup for a short time before the `discovery` components have sent a new list of targets.
```
@clayton-cornell do you think we should wrap this in. a warning or a note?
@v-zhuravlev the reason for this suggestion is to make it more clear to the users what this limiration means in practical terms.

Reviewer: Warnings should be used for cases where something can cause hard to the data:  https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/style-guide/style-conventions/#admonitions

If I understand this correctly, data won't be lost if telemetry is sent before a sync.. it's just not enriched until the sync happens. In this case.. it's a "downside" not a data is lost/destroyed situation.  So  Caution could be used here to emphasise what happens.

```
{{< admonition type="caution" >}}
By default, `loki.enrich` is ready as soon as it starts, even if no targets have been discovered.
If telemetry is sent to this component before the metadata is synced, then it will be passed though as-is, without enrichment.
This is most likely to impact `loki.enrich` on startup for a short time before the `discovery` components have sent a new list of targets.
{{< /admonition >}}

Author: updated
